content/drafts/junior_interview_tips.md, before:

---
title: "Do not make these mistakes in your first tech interviews"
date: "2020-05-04"
description: "I have conducted dozens of interviews with junior developers.
These are their most common mistakes and how to avoid them."
---

Since I joined Factorial, close to 4 years ago, we have been following more or
less the same recruitment process for our development team. We think it
strikes a good balance between showing us what candidates are capable of without
ever crossing the barrier of mind-bending whiteboard exercises.

For all the press that the tech interviews at Google get, the reality is that
most tech recruitment processes aren't like that at all. In fact, Factorial's
approach is much closer to the industry standard to the point that it's fair to
assume most devs will be encountering something similar to our interview
process, with some variations.

## The process

As a candidate, you will firstly face one or two introductory interviews with
some members from the tech department you are applying to. These are mostly
inoquous events; opportunities for the company and the candidate to get to know
each other, assess whether they are a good match and continue with the real meat
of the recruitment process. The only piece of advice I can give you at this
stage are: be honest, do not be a jerk and ask many questions; You want to know
as much as possible from the place you are applying to, so not to dedicate any
more time than necessary in a potentially pointless endeavour.

Once introductions have been made, you will be asked to submit a technical
evaluation. Often, this test involves a take-home exercise that will require
from you to write a representative chunk of your own code. If you are prolific
enough, the company might be even willing to review some other program you have
already develop instead. Developers from the company will then meet with you
and, together, you will go over your code. Here things can diverge between
companies but questions will revolve around your code, potential ways of
extending it or changing it, errors you may have made, unusual approaches you
might have taken, and the like.

The purpose of this exercise is many-fold, from evaluating general technical
proficiency to assessing reasoning capabilities but, mostly, the purpose of this
exercise is to evaluate how well would you perform the kind of work that would
be required from you, were you to be hired. Most element aforementiond are
correlated but, if you fail in the latter, you won't be hired.

This is were most people flock, and it pains me to say so because, most of the
times, it's for reasons that could easily be solved in a matter of days or
weeks.

## The circle of competence

The truth is that, in the case of entry-level positions, there's little variance
in the candidates' technical competence. If you have passed the pre-screening
process - that is, if you have arrived at the first harmless introductory
interview - you can safely assume you have the technical capacities to be hired for
that position. Of course, there might be cases were this isn't true, but on
average it is and you should work on the premise that it is in order to not
meltdown during the

Commit message:

draft: tips for junior devs

content/drafts/junior_interview_tips.md, after:

---
title: "Do not make these mistakes in your first tech interviews"
date: "2020-05-04"
description: "I have conducted dozens of interviews with junior developers.
These are their most common mistakes and how to avoid them."
---

In the last 4 years I have interviewed dozens of candidates at all levels of
experience and, without a doubt, the cohort with the highest rejection rate are
candidates to entry level positions (junior devs from now on).

What pains me to see is that most candidates fall off the recruitment funnel for
the simplest of the mistakes, which could easily be addressed with some days of
preparation. The motivs have often nothing to do with their code nor their
technical proficiency, but are rather are related to how candidate should
prepare for a technical review of their work. The failures are in the mindset,
rather than in their work.

In this post, we will go over the developer recruitment process at Factorial -
which is close to the industry standard - as well as give prospective candidates
a few tips that will serve them not only to face off technical interviews but
also to generally improve as software engineers, period.

From now on, I'm gonna assume you are a junior dev looking for your first job,
both because this is the target audience of this post and I prefer the use of
second person.

----

Since I joined Factorial, close to 4 years ago, we have been following more or
less the same recruitment process for our development team. We think it
strikes a good balance between showing us what candidates are capable of without
ever crossing the barrier of mind-bending whiteboard exercises.

For all the press that the tech interviews at Google get, the reality is that
most tech recruitment processes aren't like that at all. In fact, Factorial's
approach is much closer to the industry standard to the point that it's fair to
assume most devs will be encountering something similar to our interview
process, with some variations.

----

## The process

As a candidate, you will firstly face one or two introductory interviews with
some members from the tech department you are applying to. These are mostly
inoquous events; opportunities for the company and the candidate to get to know
each other, assess whether they are a good match and continue with the real meat
of the recruitment process. The only piece of advice I can give you at this
stage are: be honest, do not be a jerk and ask many questions; You want to know
as much as possible from the place you are applying to, so not to dedicate any
more time than necessary in a potentially pointless endeavour.

Once introductions have been made, you will be asked to submit a technical
evaluation. Often, this test involves a take-home exercise that will require
from you to write a representative chunk of your own code. If you are prolific
enough, the company might be even willing to review some other program you have
already develop instead. Developers from the company will then meet with you
and, together, you will go over your code. Here things can diverge between
companies but questions will revolve around your code, potential ways of
extending it or changing it, errors you may have made, unusual approaches you
might have taken, and the like.

The purpose of this exercise is many-fold, from evaluating general technical
proficiency to assessing reasoning capabilities but, mostly, the purpose of this
exercise is to evaluate how well would you perform the kind of work that would
be required from you, were you to be hired. Most element aforementiond are
correlated but, if you fail in the latter, you won't be hired.

This is were most people flock, and it pains me to say so because, most of the
times, it's for reasons that could easily be solved in a matter of days or
weeks.

## The circle of competence

The truth is that, in the case of entry-level positions, there's little variance
in the candidates' technical competence. If you have passed the pre-screening
process - that is, if you have arrived at the first harmless introductory
interview - you can safely assume you have the technical capacities to be hired for
that position. Of course, there might be cases were this isn't true, but on
average it is and you should work on the premise that it is in order to not
meltdown during the
